{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
{\info
{\author Bill Sparks}
{\*\company Cerritos College}}\vieww12240\viewh15840\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Instructions for the Debate\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
Before the Debate:  Team Partners should work with each other to determine\'97\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Affirmative
\b0 \'85what are your three arguments?  Start with well worded claims.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 1.	Problem\
2.	Inherency\
3.	Solvency\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
Once you know the three claims then communicate the claims to the negative.\
You can then work together to construct the rest of your case.  You can anticipate what the negative might say to refute your arguments and then plan on what your next response might be. When the negative communicates their disadvantages to you, then you can work to prepare refutation responses and defense of the plan.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Negative
\b0 \'85what are your two disadvantages?  In particular you need to determine:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 1.	The main Disadvantage Claim\
2.	The claim for the link to harm\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
Once you know the two disadvantages, then communicate the claims to the affirmative.\
You can work together to finish constructing the disadvantages.  And when you know the three affirmative arguments you can work together to prepare some refutation arguments.  Anticipate what the affirmative will say to your arguments and prepare some briefs to extend.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Information about the debate\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
Objective:  The affirmative must prove the resolution to the judges to win; otherwise the negative team will win.  You must convince a majority of the judges to win the decision.  No ties will be allowed.  In addition to win\\loss the judges will score you individually based on their perception of how well you debated in fulfilling your specific duties.\
\
Rules:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 	All arguments have to be introduced and argued within the time allotted per speech.\
	Speakers will be stopped if they go into overtime.\
	New arguments are not allowed in rebuttals, except the 1AR is allowed to refute disadvantages even if the refutation response is new.  Extensions of arguments in constructives are allowed in refutation arguments in rebuttals and new evidence may be read in rebuttals, but only to support arguments introduced in constructives.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b \cf0 Speeches in the Debate: \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0

\b0 \cf0 \
1\super st\nosupersub  Speech    (Case Flow)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 First Affirmative Constructive\ulnone \'971AC\
7 minutes (All times are maximum.)\
Duty: To present the Affirmative\'92s Prima Facie Case for the Resolution.\
\
Topicality\
Significant Harm\'97Argument 1\
Inherency\'97Argument 2\
Affirmative Plan\
Solvency\'97Argument 3\
\
\
At the end of this speech you will be involved in a cross examination by the person on the negative who will be the second negative speaker.  2 minutes.\
\
No arguments can be made in cross-examination by the questioner:(2N Speaker).  You can only ask questions.  The affirmative speaker must try to answer all questions honestly.  At worse say, I don\'92t know the answer to that question.\
\
2\super nd\nosupersub  Speech  (Case Flow)\
\ul First Negative Constructive\ulnone \'971NC\
4 minutes\
Duty: To present Two or Three refutation responses to 2 of the affirmatives arguments.   (Burden of Refutation)\
\
(Four steps to refute an argument.)\
\
1.You should tell us what argument you will be refuting, by using the signposts of the affirmative and repeating what you believe their claim was. (is).\
\
2.Then you should signpost your first response, and tell us your refutation claim. \
\
3. Then support with analysis and/or evidence.\
\
4. Finally, tell us what is the impact of winning your response.  (What does it do to  the affirmative\'92s argument.)\
\
After your first refutation argument, you should present your second refutation argument by going to step #2 above.  \
Then you should go to the second affirmative argument by using the four-step approach starting with step one. \
\
At the end of this speech you will be involved in a cross-examination by the person on the affirmative who did the first affirmative speech.  2 minutes\
3\super rd\nosupersub  Speech  (Case Flow)\
\ul Second Affirmative Constructive\ulnone \'971AC\
4 minutes\
Duty: To Rejoined (rebuild) the two arguments of the affirmative that have been refuted by the first negative.  (Burden of rejoinder)  And then you should claim victory on the one affirmative argument that was not refuted by the first negative.\
\
(Steps to rejoined)\
\
1. You should reintroduce the argument to us.  Use the signpost, the claim and give us a brief synopsis of what was proven in the original argument.\
\
2.You should tell us what the first refutation argument is.\
\
3. You should refute the refutation argument. (Rejoined) Tell us what is wrong with the refutation argument and why we should believe your argument.\
\
4. Support your rejoinder with analysis and/or evidence.\
\
5. Finally, tell us what is the impact of winning your response.\
\
Next, you address the second refutation argument by repeating the above steps starting with #2.\
\
Then you should go to the second affirmative argument that was refuted by the first negative and address starting with Step one.\
\
Lastly, Reintroduce the argument that was not refuted.  Tell us that the argument was not refuted and that at the end of the debate the judges know that the affirmative will win that particular issue.   (Remember the negative cannot argue this argument in rebuttals because it would be a new argument.)\
\
At the end of this speech you will be involved in a cross-examination by the person on the negative who was be the first negative speaker.  2 minutes.\
\
\
\
4\super th\nosupersub  Speech  (Plan Flow\'85use a second piece of paper.)\
\ul Second Negative Constructive\ulnone \'972NC\
4 minutes\
Duty: To present the Negative\'92s Two Disadvantages to the Changes required by the affirmative plan/resolution.   \
\
Disadvantages should be formatted:\
\
Disadvantage One/Two\
Main Disadvantage Claim\
	Sub. A\'97The Unique Plan Action   (UPA)\
	Sub. B\'97The UPA causes a harm   (Link)\
	Sub. C\'97The harm is significant.   (Impact)\
\
At the end of this speech you will be involved in a cross-examination by the person on the affirmative who did the second affirmative speech.  2 minutes\
\
End of the constructive speeches, start of rebuttals:\
\
5\super th\nosupersub  Speech  (Case flow)\
\ul First Negative Rebuttal\ulnone \'971NR\
3 minutes\
Duty: To rejoinder your original refutation of two of the affirmatives case arguments.\
\
Tell the audience the argument of the affirmative. What your refutation was\'85\
\
Then tell the audience what the 2AC rejoinder was. Then refute the rejoinder.\
\
Go point by point down all of your refutation arguments.  Convince the judges that both of the affirmative case arguments have been defeated.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qc
\cf0 (no cross-examination of rebuttal speeches)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \
6\super th\nosupersub  Speech  (Start with Plan flow, then go to case flow)\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 First Affirmative Rebuttal\ulnone \'971AR\
4 minutes\
Duty: 1\'97To refute both Disadvantages with two or three refutation responses.\
Go after the link and the impact.  2\'97Rejoined case arguments.  Address the rejoinder responses of the first negative rebuttalist.\
\
7\super th\nosupersub  Speech  (Use strategy\'85Choose three argumentative areas\'85both D.A.\'92s and one case argument.   Or, both case areas and one D.A.)\
\ul Second Negative Rebuttal\ulnone \'972NR\
3 minutes\
Duty: 1\'97Rejoined the three argumentative areas.  Address the rejoinder of the 1AR.\
2\'97Summarize to the judges why you believe the negative should win the debate.\
(Use the Decision rules)\
\
8\super th\nosupersub  Speech  (Follow the strategy of the Negative\'85Cover the same three areas, claim victory on the area not covered)\
\ul Second Affirmative Rebuttal\ulnone \'972AR\
3 minutes\
Duty:  1\'97Rejoined the three argumentative areas argued by the 2NR.\
2\'97Claim victory on dropped arguments and issues.  3\'97Summarize why you believe the affirmative has won the debate.  (Use the Decision Rules)\
}